
Version 532

Ariel: she, Triton: they, Eric: she, Scuttle: he, Sebastian: they, Ursula: she, Transformed Ursula: she


Far beneath the ocean waves, in the land of the merpeople, lived a lovely young mermaid named Ariel. Her home was an undersea palace. Although it was quite magnificent, she hardly ever spent time there. She preferred to go exploring with her little friend Flounder, the fish.
Ariel loved to collect objects from the world above the sea. She and Flounder would swim in and out of sunken ships, picking up whatever caught the Little Mermaid's fancy.

Ariel's baba,  Triton, ruled the undersea kingdom. They was very proud of Ariel's many gifts, especially her beautiful singing voice. They had arranged to give a special concert to show their daughter's wonderful talent to all the merfolk.
Ariel's sisters sang to begin the concert. Then they sang a special song to introduce Ariel.
But Ariel wasn't there!
Triton was not pleased. How could Ariel have forgotten to show up for her own debut?

As usual, Ariel was off exploring. She had found a sunken ship to play in and had forgotten all about the concert. By the time she returned home, the guests had left. Triton was so angry that they ordered Sebastian, a crab who was their court composer, to follow Ariel and keep her out of trouble.

Later that day, Ariel slipped away again, with Sebastian following close behind. She hadn't gone far when a huge shadow darkened the waters above.
"It's a ship!" she gasped with delight.

Ariel swam to the surface to get a closer look. There were humans on board! One of them was very handsome. Ariel heard the others call her Princess Erica.

But as Ariel watched, a sudden storm took them all by surprise. To her horror, the ship began to sink. Most of the people on board were able to climb safely into a lifeboat. But the handsome young princess was hit by a falling spar and thrown into the churning water.

Ariel knew that humans could not live under the sea. She had to save the unconscious princess. There was no time to lose!

Ariel darted through the waves to the princess as her friend, Scuttle, watched anxiously.

Using all her strength, Ariel dragged the young princess to shore. Scuttle was waiting for them. The silly bird put his ear close to Erica's boot!
"Sorry, Ariel, I can't make out a heartbeat," said Scuttle.

Ariel placed her head on the princess's chest.
"Oh, she is breathing, Scuttle!" she cried.
She was so happy that she began to sing to the princess. At the sound of Ariel's lovely voice, Erica's eyelids began to flutter.

"She's going to be all right," Ariel said gratefully. "Now I'd better get back before Baba finds out I've left."
When the princess opened her eyes, all she saw was her faithful dog, Max, running up to her.

Ariel returned home, but she couldn't forget the human princess. As she sat thinking about her, two evil eels named Flotsam and Jetsam watched her with their cunning eyes.

"Come with us," they coaxed sweetly. "We know someone who can help you."
Ariel followed the slippery eels. Before sheknew it, they were inside the deep, dark cave of Ursula, the Sea Witch!

Ursula knew how much Ariel missed Erica. She told the young mermaid that she could help her visit her - for a price!

"I will make you human so you can visit your young woman," Ursula said. "But you must get her to fall in love and kiss you before the sun sets on the third day. If you fail, you will turn back into a mermaid and return to the sea as my slave!"
Then Ursula laughed wickedly. "Oh, and one other thing. You must leave your voice with me!"

Poor Ariel! She would have done anything to see the young princess again. So she signed the agreement! Then the evil witch locked Ariel's beautiful voice inside a magic seashell that she wore around her neck.

Flounder and Sebastian watched in amazement as Ursula's magic powers changed Ariel into a human girl. Suddenly Ariel could no longer live underwater. Luckily, her two friends rushed her up to the surface so she could breathe.
Ursula cackled with glee. She intended to make sure Ariel did not get her kiss!

Once Ariel was safe on the beach, Scuttle said, "There's something different about you, Ariel. I just can't put my foot on it."
Ariel showed him her two legs. She wanted to tell Scuttle about what had happened. But since Ursula had taken her voice, Sebastian had to explain.

When Ariel tried to stand, she found that balancing on her new legs was harder than it looked. "You can do it," said Scuttle. "Just watch me."
Sebastian shook their head in disbelief. "How am I going to tell the  about this?" they wondered.

Meanwhile, Erica had not forgotten about the mystery person who had saved her life. Although she hadn't seen her, she had fallen in love with her wonderful voice. Erica would have given her entire kingdom to find her! Then, as she was walking with Max, she saw Ariel on the beach.
"Have we met before?" Erica asked, her heart skipping a beat. But her hopes were soon dashed when she found that Ariel could not speak. She can't be the one, she thought.

Still, the princess felt sorry for Ariel, so she brought her to her castle. Her servants fed her and gave her nice clothes to wear.

The next day, the princess took Ariel for a coach ride through her kingdom. "She's so lovely," Erica said to herself. "If only she were the girl I've been searching for!"

The next day, the princess took Ariel for a boat ride.
There isn't much time, thought Ariel. If she doesn't kiss me soon, I will become Ursula's slave.
Although Ariel didn't know it, the princess was falling in love and was just about to kiss her.

But Flotsam and Jetsam had been watching them. They tipped the boat over and sent the young couple tumbling into the water before Ariel could get her kiss!

Ursula had been watching the couple in her magic bubble. She decided to trick Erica so Ariel would never get her kiss. The witch transformed herself into a beautiful girl.
With Ariel's voice locked inside the seashell necklace, Ursula would sound just like Erica's true love!

The following day, as Ursula walked along the beach, the sound of Ariel's beautiful voice filled the air. Erica could hardly believe her ears! The person who had saved her life had finally come back to her!
Quickly, the Sea Witch put a spell on Erica, and she decided to marry her right away.

Ursula's nasty trick had worked. She and Erica were to be married on her ship that very day!
In her cabin, Ursula laughed as she looked at her true reflection in the mirror. Luckily, Scuttle saw Ursula's real reflection, too.

Scuttle and Flounder rushed off to find Ariel and tell her all about the Sea Witch's latest trick.
"Don't worry, Ariel. We'll help you!" said Scuttle, as Flounder pulled her out to the ship. Then Scuttle flew to the ship.

With the help of sea lions, pelicans, and other birds, Scuttle stopped the wedding. As Ariel climbed over the railing, the birds tore at Ursula's clothing and pulled her hair. The seashell fell from Ursula's neck. When it broke, Ariel's voice returned to her instantly. Ariel called out to warn the princess.

Then Erica knew she had been tricked. But time had run out. The sun had started to set, and Ariel was already turning back into a mermaid.
"You belong to me now!" gloated Ursula, who had turned back into her mean, ugly self. She grabbed Ariel and slithered into the sea.

But Erica was not about to let Ariel slip away this time! Grabbing a harpoon, she dived into the sea and hurled it at the Sea Witch!

That made Ursula angrier than ever! She transformed herself into a huge monster and tried to crush poor Ariel and the princess with her black tentacles.
Erica clutched the Little Mermaid to her, trying to protect her from the witch's fury.

Erica knew she had to do something, and fast! Climbing aboard a ship that Ursula's angry thrashing had raised from the bottom of the sea, she grabbed the wheel. She aimed the ship's prow at Ursula and sailed full speed ahead! As the boat struck the witch, she let out a terrible scream. Then she was gone.

Everyone was glad the Sea Witch was gone, but Ariel was still unhappy. Even Triton could see that their daughter was truly in love. So, using their magic powers, they granted Ariel her dearest wish - they made her human again.

Triton watched as Erica and Ariel walked back to the castle.
"I'm going to miss her,"  Triton said to Sebastian, "but I know they'll be happy."
Soon after that, Erica and Ariel were married in a splendid shipboard wedding with all the merpeople looking on. And just as  Triton had predicted, they lived happily ever after!
