
Version 2154

Ariel: they, Triton: they, Eric: they, Scuttle: he, Sebastian: they, Ursula: she, Transformed Ursula: they


Far beneath the ocean waves, in the land of the merpeople, lived a lovely young merperson named Ariel. Their home was an undersea palace. Although it was quite magnificent, they hardly ever spent time there. They preferred to go exploring with their little friend Flounder, the fish.
Ariel loved to collect objects from the world above the sea. They and Flounder would swim in and out of sunken ships, picking up whatever caught the Little Merperson's fancy.

Ariel's baba,  Triton, ruled the undersea kingdom. They was very proud of Ariel's many gifts, especially their beautiful singing voice. They had arranged to give a special concert to show their child's wonderful talent to all the merfolk.
Ariel's sisters sang to begin the concert. Then they sang a special song to introduce Ariel.
But Ariel wasn't there!
Triton was not pleased. How could Ariel have forgotten to show up for their own debut?

As usual, Ariel was off exploring. They had found a sunken ship to play in and had forgotten all about the concert. By the time they returned home, the guests had left. Triton was so angry that they ordered Sebastian, a crab who was their court composer, to follow Ariel and keep them out of trouble.

Later that day, Ariel slipped away again, with Sebastian following close behind. They hadn't gone far when a huge shadow darkened the waters above.
"It's a ship!" they gasped with delight.

Ariel swam to the surface to get a closer look. There were humans on board! One of them was very handsome. Ariel heard the others call them  Eric.

But as Ariel watched, a sudden storm took them all by surprise. To their horror, the ship began to sink. Most of the people on board were able to climb safely into a lifeboat. But the handsome young human was hit by a falling spar and thrown into the churning water.

Ariel knew that humans could not live under the sea. They had to save the unconscious human. There was no time to lose!

Ariel darted through the waves to the human as their friend, Scuttle, watched anxiously.

Using all their strength, Ariel dragged the young human to shore. Scuttle was waiting for them. The silly bird put his ear close to Eric's boot!
"Sorry, Ariel, I can't make out a heartbeat," said Scuttle.

Ariel placed their head on the human's chest.
"Oh, they is breathing, Scuttle!" they cried.
They was so happy that they began to sing to the human. At the sound of Ariel's lovely voice, Eric's eyelids began to flutter.

"They's going to be all right," Ariel said gratefully. "Now I'd better get back before Baba finds out I've left."
When the human opened their eyes, all they saw was their faithful dog, Max, running up to them.

Ariel returned home, but they couldn't forget the human human. As they sat thinking about them, two evil eels named Flotsam and Jetsam watched them with their cunning eyes.

"Come with us," they coaxed sweetly. "We know someone who can help you."
Ariel followed the slippery eels. Before they knew it, they were inside the deep, dark cave of Ursula, the Sea Witch!

Ursula knew how much Ariel missed Eric. She told the young merperson that she could help them visit them - for a price!

"I will make you human so you can visit your young human," Ursula said. "But you must get them to fall in love and kiss you before the sun sets on the third day. If you fail, you will turn back into a merperson and return to the sea as my slave!"
Then Ursula laughed wickedly. "Oh, and one other thing. You must leave your voice with me!"

Poor Ariel! They would have done anything to see the young human again. So they signed the agreement! Then the evil witch locked Ariel's beautiful voice inside a magic seashell that she wore around her neck.

Flounder and Sebastian watched in amazement as Ursula's magic powers changed Ariel into a human person. Suddenly Ariel could no longer live underwater. Luckily, their two friends rushed them up to the surface so they could breathe.
Ursula cackled with glee. She intended to make sure Ariel did not get their kiss!

Once Ariel was safe on the beach, Scuttle said, "There's something different about you, Ariel. I just can't put my foot on it."
Ariel showed him their two legs. They wanted to tell Scuttle about what had happened. But since Ursula had taken their voice, Sebastian had to explain.

When Ariel tried to stand, they found that balancing on their new legs was harder than it looked. "You can do it," said Scuttle. "Just watch me."
Sebastian shook their head in disbelief. "How am I going to tell the  about this?" they wondered.

Meanwhile, Eric had not forgotten about the mystery person who had saved their life. Although they hadn't seen them, they had fallen in love with their wonderful voice. Eric would have given their entire kingdom to find them! Then, as they was walking with Max, they saw Ariel on the beach.
"Have we met before?" Eric asked, their heart skipping a beat. But their hopes were soon dashed when they found that Ariel could not speak. They can't be the one, they thought.

Still, the human felt sorry for Ariel, so they brought them to their castle. Their servants fed them and gave them nice clothes to wear.

The next day, the human took Ariel for a coach ride through their kingdom. "They's so lovely," Eric said to theirself. "If only they were the person I've been searching for!"

The next day, the human took Ariel for a boat ride.
There isn't much time, thought Ariel. If they doesn't kiss me soon, I will become Ursula's slave.
Although Ariel didn't know it, the human was falling in love and was just about to kiss them.

But Flotsam and Jetsam had been watching them. They tipped the boat over and sent the young couple tumbling into the water before Ariel could get their kiss!

Ursula had been watching the couple in her magic bubble. She decided to trick Eric so Ariel would never get their kiss. The witch transformed herself into a beautiful human.
With Ariel's voice locked inside the seashell necklace, Ursula would sound just like Eric's true love!

The following day, as Ursula walked along the beach, the sound of Ariel's beautiful voice filled the air. Eric could hardly believe their ears! The person who had saved their life had finally come back to them!
Quickly, the Sea Witch put a spell on Eric, and they decided to marry them right away.

Ursula's nasty trick had worked. They and Eric were to be married on their ship that very day!
In their cabin, Ursula laughed as they looked at their true reflection in the mirror. Luckily, Scuttle saw Ursula's real reflection, too.

Scuttle and Flounder rushed off to find Ariel and tell them all about the Sea Witch's latest trick.
"Don't worry, Ariel. We'll help you!" said Scuttle, as Flounder pulled them out to the ship. Then Scuttle flew to the ship.

With the help of sea lions, pelicans, and other birds, Scuttle stopped the wedding. As Ariel climbed over the railing, the birds tore at Ursula's clothing and pulled their hair. The seashell fell from Ursula's neck. When it broke, Ariel's voice returned to them instantly. Ariel called out to warn the human.

Then Eric knew they had been tricked. But time had run out. The sun had started to set, and Ariel was already turning back into a merperson.
"You belong to me now!" gloated Ursula, who had turned back into her mean, ugly self. She grabbed Ariel and slithered into the sea.

But Eric was not about to let Ariel slip away this time! Grabbing a harpoon, they dived into the sea and hurled it at the Sea Witch!

That made Ursula angrier than ever! She transformed herself into a huge monster and tried to crush poor Ariel and the human with her black tentacles.
Eric clutched the Little Merperson to them, trying to protect them from the witch's fury.

Eric knew they had to do something, and fast! Climbing aboard a ship that Ursula's angry thrashing had raised from the bottom of the sea, they grabbed the wheel. They aimed the ship's prow at Ursula and sailed full speed ahead! As the boat struck the witch, she let out a terrible scream. Then she was gone.

Everyone was glad the Sea Witch was gone, but Ariel was still unhappy. Even Triton could see that their child was truly in love. So, using their magic powers, they granted Ariel their dearest wish - they made them human again.

Triton watched as Eric and Ariel walked back to the castle.
"I'm going to miss them,"  Triton said to Sebastian, "but I know they'll be happy."
Soon after that, Eric and Ariel were married in a splendid shipboard wedding with all the merpeople looking on. And just as  Triton had predicted, they lived happily ever after!
