
Version 1599

Ariel: they, Triton: she, Eric: she, Scuttle: they, Sebastian: she, Ursula: he, Transformed Ursula: they


Far beneath the ocean waves, in the land of the merpeople, lived a lovely young merperson named Ariel. Their home was an undersea palace. Although it was quite magnificent, they hardly ever spent time there. They preferred to go exploring with them little friend Flounder, the fish.
Ariel loved to collect objects from the world above the sea. They and Flounder would swim in and out of sunken ships, picking up whatever caught the Little Merperson's fancy.

Ariel's mother, Queen Triton, ruled the undersea kingdom. She was very proud of Ariel's many gifts, especially their beautiful singing voice. She had arranged to give a special concert to show her child's wonderful talent to all the merfolk.
Ariel's sisters sang to begin the concert. Then they sang a special song to introduce Ariel.
But Ariel wasn't there!
Triton was not pleased. How could Ariel have forgotten to show up for their own debut?

As usual, Ariel was off exploring. They had found a sunken ship to play in and had forgotten all about the concert. By the time they returned home, the guests had left. Triton was so angry that she ordered Sandy, a crab who was her court composer, to follow Ariel and keep them out of trouble.

Later that day, Ariel slipped away again, with Sandy following close behind. They hadn't gone far when a huge shadow darkened the waters above.
"It's a ship!" they gasped with delight.

Ariel swam to the surface to get a closer look. There were humans on board! One of them was very handsome. Ariel heard the others call her Princess Erica.

But as Ariel watched, a sudden storm took them all by surprise. To their horror, the ship began to sink. Most of the people on board were able to climb safely into a lifeboat. But the handsome young princess was hit by a falling spar and thrown into the churning water.

Ariel knew that humans could not live under the sea. They had to save the unconscious princess. There was no time to lose!

Ariel darted through the waves to the princess as their friend, Scuttle, watched anxiously.

Using all their strength, Ariel dragged the young princess to shore. Scuttle was waiting for them. The silly bird put their ear close to Erica's boot!
"Sorry, Ariel, I can't make out a heartbeat," said Scuttle.

Ariel placed their head on the princess's chest.
"Oh, she is breathing, Scuttle!" they cried.
They was so happy that they began to sing to the princess. At the sound of Ariel's lovely voice, Erica's eyelids began to flutter.

"She's going to be all right," Ariel said gratefully. "Now I'd better get back before Mother finds out I've left."
When the princess opened her eyes, all she saw was her faithful dog, Max, running up to her.

Ariel returned home, but they couldn't forget the human princess. As they sat thinking about her, two evil eels named Flotsam and Jetsam watched them with their cunning eyes.

"Come with us," they coaxed sweetly. "We know someone who can help you."
Ariel followed the slippery eels. Before theyknew it, they were inside the deep, dark cave of Ursus, the Sea Wizard!

Ursus knew how much Ariel missed Erica. He told the young merperson that he could help them visit her - for a price!

"I will make you human so you can visit your young woman," Ursus said. "But you must get her to fall in love and kiss you before the sun sets on the third day. If you fail, you will turn back into a merperson and return to the sea as my slave!"
Then Ursus laughed wickedly. "Oh, and one other thing. You must leave your voice with me!"

Poor Ariel! They would have done anything to see the young princess again. So they signed the agreement! Then the evil wizard locked Ariel's beautiful voice inside a magic seashell that he wore around his neck.

Flounder and Sandy watched in amazement as Ursus's magic powers changed Ariel into a human person. Suddenly Ariel could no longer live underwater. Luckily, their two friends rushed them up to the surface so they could breathe.
Ursus cackled with glee. He intended to make sure Ariel did not get their kiss!

Once Ariel was safe on the beach, Scuttle said, "There's something different about you, Ariel. I just can't put my foot on it."
Ariel showed them their two legs. They wanted to tell Scuttle about what had happened. But since Ursus had taken their voice, Sandy had to explain.

When Ariel tried to stand, they found that balancing on their new legs was harder than it looked. "You can do it," said Scuttle. "Just watch me."
Sandy shook her head in disbelief. "How am I going to tell the queen about this?" she wondered.

Meanwhile, Erica had not forgotten about the mystery person who had saved her life. Although she hadn't seen them, she had fallen in love with their wonderful voice. Erica would have given her entire kingdom to find them! Then, as she was walking with Max, she saw Ariel on the beach.
"Have we met before?" Erica asked, her heart skipping a beat. But her hopes were soon dashed when she found that Ariel could not speak. They can't be the one, she thought.

Still, the princess felt sorry for Ariel, so she brought them to her castle. Her servants fed them and gave them nice clothes to wear.

The next day, the princess took Ariel for a coach ride through her kingdom. "They's so lovely," Erica said to herself. "If only they were the person I've been searching for!"

The next day, the princess took Ariel for a boat ride.
There isn't much time, thought Ariel. If she doesn't kiss me soon, I will become Ursus's slave.
Although Ariel didn't know it, the princess was falling in love and was just about to kiss them.

But Flotsam and Jetsam had been watching them. They tipped the boat over and sent the young couple tumbling into the water before Ariel could get their kiss!

Ursus had been watching the couple in his magic bubble. He decided to trick Erica so Ariel would never get their kiss. The wizard transformed theirself into a beautiful human.
With Ariel's voice locked inside the seashell necklace, Ursus would sound just like Erica's true love!

The following day, as Ursus walked along the beach, the sound of Ariel's beautiful voice filled the air. Erica could hardly believe her ears! The person who had saved her life had finally come back to her!
Quickly, the Sea Wizard put a spell on Erica, and she decided to marry them right away.

Ursus's nasty trick had worked. They and Erica were to be married on her ship that very day!
In their cabin, Ursus laughed as they looked at their true reflection in the mirror. Luckily, Scuttle saw Ursus's real reflection, too.

Scuttle and Flounder rushed off to find Ariel and tell them all about the Sea Wizard's latest trick.
"Don't worry, Ariel. We'll help you!" said Scuttle, as Flounder pulled them out to the ship. Then Scuttle flew to the ship.

With the help of sea lions, pelicans, and other birds, Scuttle stopped the wedding. As Ariel climbed over the railing, the birds tore at Ursus's clothing and pulled their hair. The seashell fell from Ursus's neck. When it broke, Ariel's voice returned to them instantly. Ariel called out to warn the princess.

Then Erica knew she had been tricked. But time had run out. The sun had started to set, and Ariel was already turning back into a merperson.
"You belong to me now!" gloated Ursus, who had turned back into his mean, ugly self. He grabbed Ariel and slithered into the sea.

But Erica was not about to let Ariel slip away this time! Grabbing a harpoon, she dived into the sea and hurled it at the Sea Wizard!

That made Ursus angrier than ever! He transformed theirself into a huge monster and tried to crush poor Ariel and the princess with his black tentacles.
Erica clutched the Little Merperson to her, trying to protect them from the wizard's fury.

Erica knew she had to do something, and fast! Climbing aboard a ship that Ursus's angry thrashing had raised from the bottom of the sea, she grabbed the wheel. She aimed the ship's prow at Ursus and sailed full speed ahead! As the boat struck the wizard, he let out a terrible scream. Then he was gone.

Everyone was glad the Sea Wizard was gone, but Ariel was still unhappy. Even Triton could see that her child was truly in love. So, using her magic powers, she granted Ariel their dearest wish - she made them human again.

Triton watched as Erica and Ariel walked back to the castle.
"I'm going to miss them," Queen Triton said to Sandy, "but I know they'll be happy."
Soon after that, Erica and Ariel were married in a splendid shipboard wedding with all the merpeople looking on. And just as Queen Triton had predicted, they lived happily ever after!
