
Version 1845

Ariel: they, Triton: he, Eric: he, Scuttle: they, Sebastian: she, Ursula: they, Transformed Ursula: they


Far beneath the ocean waves, in the land of the merpeople, lived a lovely young merperson named Ariel. Their home was an undersea palace. Although it was quite magnificent, they hardly ever spent time there. They preferred to go exploring with their little friend Flounder, the fish.
Ariel loved to collect objects from the world above the sea. They and Flounder would swim in and out of sunken ships, picking up whatever caught the Little Merperson's fancy.

Ariel's father, King Triton, ruled the undersea kingdom. He was very proud of Ariel's many gifts, especially their beautiful singing voice. He had arranged to give a special concert to show his child's wonderful talent to all the merfolk.
Ariel's sisters sang to begin the concert. Then they sang a special song to introduce Ariel.
But Ariel wasn't there!
Triton was not pleased. How could Ariel have forgotten to show up for their own debut?

As usual, Ariel was off exploring. They had found a sunken ship to play in and had forgotten all about the concert. By the time they returned home, the guests had left. Triton was so angry that he ordered Sandy, a crab who was his court composer, to follow Ariel and keep them out of trouble.

Later that day, Ariel slipped away again, with Sandy following close behind. They hadn't gone far when a huge shadow darkened the waters above.
"It's a ship!" they gasped with delight.

Ariel swam to the surface to get a closer look. There were humans on board! One of them was very handsome. Ariel heard the others call him Prince Eric.

But as Ariel watched, a sudden storm took them all by surprise. To their horror, the ship began to sink. Most of the people on board were able to climb safely into a lifeboat. But the handsome young prince was hit by a falling spar and thrown into the churning water.

Ariel knew that humans could not live under the sea. They had to save the unconscious prince. There was no time to lose!

Ariel darted through the waves to the prince as their friend, Scuttle, watched anxiously.

Using all their strength, Ariel dragged the young prince to shore. Scuttle was waiting for them. The silly bird put their ear close to Eric's boot!
"Sorry, Ariel, I can't make out a heartbeat," said Scuttle.

Ariel placed their head on the prince's chest.
"Oh, he is breathing, Scuttle!" they cried.
They was so happy that they began to sing to the prince. At the sound of Ariel's lovely voice, Eric's eyelids began to flutter.

"He's going to be all right," Ariel said gratefully. "Now I'd better get back before Father finds out I've left."
When the prince opened his eyes, all he saw was his faithful dog, Max, running up to him.

Ariel returned home, but they couldn't forget the human prince. As they sat thinking about him, two evil eels named Flotsam and Jetsam watched them with their cunning eyes.

"Come with us," they coaxed sweetly. "We know someone who can help you."
Ariel followed the slippery eels. Before they knew it, they were inside the deep, dark cave of Ursula, the Sea Witch!

Ursula knew how much Ariel missed Eric. They told the young merperson that they could help them visit him - for a price!

"I will make you human so you can visit your young man," Ursula said. "But you must get him to fall in love and kiss you before the sun sets on the third day. If you fail, you will turn back into a merperson and return to the sea as my slave!"
Then Ursula laughed wickedly. "Oh, and one other thing. You must leave your voice with me!"

Poor Ariel! They would have done anything to see the young prince again. So they signed the agreement! Then the evil witch locked Ariel's beautiful voice inside a magic seashell that they wore around their neck.

Flounder and Sandy watched in amazement as Ursula's magic powers changed Ariel into a human person. Suddenly Ariel could no longer live underwater. Luckily, their two friends rushed them up to the surface so they could breathe.
Ursula cackled with glee. They intended to make sure Ariel did not get their kiss!

Once Ariel was safe on the beach, Scuttle said, "There's something different about you, Ariel. I just can't put my foot on it."
Ariel showed them their two legs. They wanted to tell Scuttle about what had happened. But since Ursula had taken their voice, Sandy had to explain.

When Ariel tried to stand, they found that balancing on their new legs was harder than it looked. "You can do it," said Scuttle. "Just watch me."
Sandy shook her head in disbelief. "How am I going to tell the king about this?" she wondered.

Meanwhile, Eric had not forgotten about the mystery person who had saved his life. Although he hadn't seen them, he had fallen in love with their wonderful voice. Eric would have given his entire kingdom to find them! Then, as he was walking with Max, he saw Ariel on the beach.
"Have we met before?" Eric asked, his heart skipping a beat. But his hopes were soon dashed when he found that Ariel could not speak. They can't be the one, he thought.

Still, the prince felt sorry for Ariel, so he brought them to his castle. His servants fed them and gave them nice clothes to wear.

The next day, the prince took Ariel for a coach ride through his kingdom. "They's so lovely," Eric said to himself. "If only they were the person I've been searching for!"

The next day, the prince took Ariel for a boat ride.
There isn't much time, thought Ariel. If he doesn't kiss me soon, I will become Ursula's slave.
Although Ariel didn't know it, the prince was falling in love and was just about to kiss them.

But Flotsam and Jetsam had been watching them. They tipped the boat over and sent the young couple tumbling into the water before Ariel could get their kiss!

Ursula had been watching the couple in their magic bubble. They decided to trick Eric so Ariel would never get their kiss. The witch transformed theirself into a beautiful human.
With Ariel's voice locked inside the seashell necklace, Ursula would sound just like Eric's true love!

The following day, as Ursula walked along the beach, the sound of Ariel's beautiful voice filled the air. Eric could hardly believe his ears! The person who had saved his life had finally come back to him!
Quickly, the Sea Witch put a spell on Eric, and he decided to marry them right away.

Ursula's nasty trick had worked. They and Eric were to be married on his ship that very day!
In their cabin, Ursula laughed as they looked at their true reflection in the mirror. Luckily, Scuttle saw Ursula's real reflection, too.

Scuttle and Flounder rushed off to find Ariel and tell them all about the Sea Witch's latest trick.
"Don't worry, Ariel. We'll help you!" said Scuttle, as Flounder pulled them out to the ship. Then Scuttle flew to the ship.

With the help of sea lions, pelicans, and other birds, Scuttle stopped the wedding. As Ariel climbed over the railing, the birds tore at Ursula's clothing and pulled their hair. The seashell fell from Ursula's neck. When it broke, Ariel's voice returned to them instantly. Ariel called out to warn the prince.

Then Eric knew he had been tricked. But time had run out. The sun had started to set, and Ariel was already turning back into a merperson.
"You belong to me now!" gloated Ursula, who had turned back into their mean, ugly self. They grabbed Ariel and slithered into the sea.

But Eric was not about to let Ariel slip away this time! Grabbing a harpoon, he dived into the sea and hurled it at the Sea Witch!

That made Ursula angrier than ever! They transformed theirself into a huge monster and tried to crush poor Ariel and the prince with their black tentacles.
Eric clutched the Little Merperson to him, trying to protect them from the witch's fury.

Eric knew he had to do something, and fast! Climbing aboard a ship that Ursula's angry thrashing had raised from the bottom of the sea, he grabbed the wheel. He aimed the ship's prow at Ursula and sailed full speed ahead! As the boat struck the witch, they let out a terrible scream. Then they was gone.

Everyone was glad the Sea Witch was gone, but Ariel was still unhappy. Even Triton could see that his child was truly in love. So, using his magic powers, he granted Ariel their dearest wish - he made them human again.

Triton watched as Eric and Ariel walked back to the castle.
"I'm going to miss them," King Triton said to Sandy, "but I know they'll be happy."
Soon after that, Eric and Ariel were married in a splendid shipboard wedding with all the merpeople looking on. And just as King Triton had predicted, they lived happily ever after!
