
Version 1200

Ariel: he, Triton: he, Eric: they, Scuttle: they, Sebastian: he, Ursula: she, Transformed Ursula: they


Far beneath the ocean waves, in the land of the merpeople, lived a lovely young merman named Ariel. His home was an undersea palace. Although it was quite magnificent, he hardly ever spent time there. He preferred to go exploring with him little friend Flounder, the fish.
Ariel loved to collect objects from the world above the sea. He and Flounder would swim in and out of sunken ships, picking up whatever caught the Little Merman's fancy.

Ariel's father, King Triton, ruled the undersea kingdom. He was very proud of Ariel's many gifts, especially his beautiful singing voice. He had arranged to give a special concert to show his son's wonderful talent to all the merfolk.
Ariel's sisters sang to begin the concert. Then they sang a special song to introduce Ariel.
But Ariel wasn't there!
Triton was not pleased. How could Ariel have forgotten to show up for his own debut?

As usual, Ariel was off exploring. He had found a sunken ship to play in and had forgotten all about the concert. By the time he returned home, the guests had left. Triton was so angry that he ordered Sebastian, a crab who was his court composer, to follow Ariel and keep him out of trouble.

Later that day, Ariel slipped away again, with Sebastian following close behind. He hadn't gone far when a huge shadow darkened the waters above.
"It's a ship!" he gasped with delight.

Ariel swam to the surface to get a closer look. There were humans on board! One of them was very handsome. Ariel heard the others call them  Eric.

But as Ariel watched, a sudden storm took them all by surprise. To his horror, the ship began to sink. Most of the people on board were able to climb safely into a lifeboat. But the handsome young human was hit by a falling spar and thrown into the churning water.

Ariel knew that humans could not live under the sea. He had to save the unconscious human. There was no time to lose!

Ariel darted through the waves to the human as his friend, Scuttle, watched anxiously.

Using all his strength, Ariel dragged the young human to shore. Scuttle was waiting for them. The silly bird put their ear close to Eric's boot!
"Sorry, Ariel, I can't make out a heartbeat," said Scuttle.

Ariel placed his head on the human's chest.
"Oh, they is breathing, Scuttle!" he cried.
He was so happy that he began to sing to the human. At the sound of Ariel's lovely voice, Eric's eyelids began to flutter.

"They's going to be all right," Ariel said gratefully. "Now I'd better get back before Father finds out I've left."
When the human opened their eyes, all they saw was their faithful dog, Max, running up to them.

Ariel returned home, but he couldn't forget the human human. As he sat thinking about them, two evil eels named Flotsam and Jetsam watched him with their cunning eyes.

"Come with us," they coaxed sweetly. "We know someone who can help you."
Ariel followed the slippery eels. Before heknew it, they were inside the deep, dark cave of Ursula, the Sea Witch!

Ursula knew how much Ariel missed Eric. She told the young merman that she could help him visit them - for a price!

"I will make you human so you can visit your young human," Ursula said. "But you must get them to fall in love and kiss you before the sun sets on the third day. If you fail, you will turn back into a merman and return to the sea as my slave!"
Then Ursula laughed wickedly. "Oh, and one other thing. You must leave your voice with me!"

Poor Ariel! He would have done anything to see the young human again. So he signed the agreement! Then the evil witch locked Ariel's beautiful voice inside a magic seashell that she wore around her neck.

Flounder and Sebastian watched in amazement as Ursula's magic powers changed Ariel into a human boy. Suddenly Ariel could no longer live underwater. Luckily, his two friends rushed him up to the surface so he could breathe.
Ursula cackled with glee. She intended to make sure Ariel did not get his kiss!

Once Ariel was safe on the beach, Scuttle said, "There's something different about you, Ariel. I just can't put my foot on it."
Ariel showed them his two legs. He wanted to tell Scuttle about what had happened. But since Ursula had taken his voice, Sebastian had to explain.

When Ariel tried to stand, he found that balancing on his new legs was harder than it looked. "You can do it," said Scuttle. "Just watch me."
Sebastian shook his head in disbelief. "How am I going to tell the king about this?" he wondered.

Meanwhile, Eric had not forgotten about the mystery person who had saved their life. Although they hadn't seen him, they had fallen in love with his wonderful voice. Eric would have given their entire kingdom to find him! Then, as they was walking with Max, they saw Ariel on the beach.
"Have we met before?" Eric asked, their heart skipping a beat. But their hopes were soon dashed when they found that Ariel could not speak. He can't be the one, they thought.

Still, the human felt sorry for Ariel, so they brought him to their castle. Their servants fed him and gave him nice clothes to wear.

The next day, the human took Ariel for a coach ride through their kingdom. "He's so lovely," Eric said to theirself. "If only he were the boy I've been searching for!"

The next day, the human took Ariel for a boat ride.
There isn't much time, thought Ariel. If they doesn't kiss me soon, I will become Ursula's slave.
Although Ariel didn't know it, the human was falling in love and was just about to kiss him.

But Flotsam and Jetsam had been watching them. They tipped the boat over and sent the young couple tumbling into the water before Ariel could get his kiss!

Ursula had been watching the couple in her magic bubble. She decided to trick Eric so Ariel would never get his kiss. The witch transformed theirself into a beautiful human.
With Ariel's voice locked inside the seashell necklace, Ursula would sound just like Eric's true love!

The following day, as Ursula walked along the beach, the sound of Ariel's beautiful voice filled the air. Eric could hardly believe their ears! The person who had saved their life had finally come back to them!
Quickly, the Sea Witch put a spell on Eric, and they decided to marry them right away.

Ursula's nasty trick had worked. They and Eric were to be married on their ship that very day!
In their cabin, Ursula laughed as they looked at their true reflection in the mirror. Luckily, Scuttle saw Ursula's real reflection, too.

Scuttle and Flounder rushed off to find Ariel and tell him all about the Sea Witch's latest trick.
"Don't worry, Ariel. We'll help you!" said Scuttle, as Flounder pulled him out to the ship. Then Scuttle flew to the ship.

With the help of sea lions, pelicans, and other birds, Scuttle stopped the wedding. As Ariel climbed over the railing, the birds tore at Ursula's clothing and pulled their hair. The seashell fell from Ursula's neck. When it broke, Ariel's voice returned to him instantly. Ariel called out to warn the human.

Then Eric knew they had been tricked. But time had run out. The sun had started to set, and Ariel was already turning back into a merman.
"You belong to me now!" gloated Ursula, who had turned back into her mean, ugly self. She grabbed Ariel and slithered into the sea.

But Eric was not about to let Ariel slip away this time! Grabbing a harpoon, they dived into the sea and hurled it at the Sea Witch!

That made Ursula angrier than ever! She transformed theirself into a huge monster and tried to crush poor Ariel and the human with her black tentacles.
Eric clutched the Little Merman to them, trying to protect him from the witch's fury.

Eric knew they had to do something, and fast! Climbing aboard a ship that Ursula's angry thrashing had raised from the bottom of the sea, they grabbed the wheel. They aimed the ship's prow at Ursula and sailed full speed ahead! As the boat struck the witch, she let out a terrible scream. Then she was gone.

Everyone was glad the Sea Witch was gone, but Ariel was still unhappy. Even Triton could see that his son was truly in love. So, using his magic powers, he granted Ariel his dearest wish - he made him human again.

Triton watched as Eric and Ariel walked back to the castle.
"I'm going to miss him," King Triton said to Sebastian, "but I know they'll be happy."
Soon after that, Eric and Ariel were married in a splendid shipboard wedding with all the merpeople looking on. And just as King Triton had predicted, they lived happily ever after!
