
Version 1313

Ariel: he, Triton: they, Eric: he, Scuttle: she, Sebastian: he, Ursula: they, Transformed Ursula: he


Far beneath the ocean waves, in the land of the merpeople, lived a lovely young merman named Ariel. His home was an undersea palace. Although it was quite magnificent, he hardly ever spent time there. He preferred to go exploring with him little friend Flounder, the fish.
Ariel loved to collect objects from the world above the sea. He and Flounder would swim in and out of sunken ships, picking up whatever caught the Little Merman's fancy.

Ariel's baba,  Triton, ruled the undersea kingdom. They was very proud of Ariel's many gifts, especially his beautiful singing voice. They had arranged to give a special concert to show their son's wonderful talent to all the merfolk.
Ariel's sisters sang to begin the concert. Then they sang a special song to introduce Ariel.
But Ariel wasn't there!
Triton was not pleased. How could Ariel have forgotten to show up for his own debut?

As usual, Ariel was off exploring. He had found a sunken ship to play in and had forgotten all about the concert. By the time he returned home, the guests had left. Triton was so angry that they ordered Sebastian, a crab who was their court composer, to follow Ariel and keep him out of trouble.

Later that day, Ariel slipped away again, with Sebastian following close behind. He hadn't gone far when a huge shadow darkened the waters above.
"It's a ship!" he gasped with delight.

Ariel swam to the surface to get a closer look. There were humans on board! One of them was very handsome. Ariel heard the others call him Prince Eric.

But as Ariel watched, a sudden storm took them all by surprise. To his horror, the ship began to sink. Most of the people on board were able to climb safely into a lifeboat. But the handsome young prince was hit by a falling spar and thrown into the churning water.

Ariel knew that humans could not live under the sea. He had to save the unconscious prince. There was no time to lose!

Ariel darted through the waves to the prince as his friend, Scuttle, watched anxiously.

Using all his strength, Ariel dragged the young prince to shore. Scuttle was waiting for them. The silly bird put her ear close to Eric's boot!
"Sorry, Ariel, I can't make out a heartbeat," said Scuttle.

Ariel placed his head on the prince's chest.
"Oh, he is breathing, Scuttle!" he cried.
He was so happy that he began to sing to the prince. At the sound of Ariel's lovely voice, Eric's eyelids began to flutter.

"He's going to be all right," Ariel said gratefully. "Now I'd better get back before Baba finds out I've left."
When the prince opened his eyes, all he saw was his faithful dog, Max, running up to him.

Ariel returned home, but he couldn't forget the human prince. As he sat thinking about him, two evil eels named Flotsam and Jetsam watched him with their cunning eyes.

"Come with us," they coaxed sweetly. "We know someone who can help you."
Ariel followed the slippery eels. Before heknew it, they were inside the deep, dark cave of Ursula, the Sea Witch!

Ursula knew how much Ariel missed Eric. They told the young merman that they could help him visit him - for a price!

"I will make you human so you can visit your young man," Ursula said. "But you must get him to fall in love and kiss you before the sun sets on the third day. If you fail, you will turn back into a merman and return to the sea as my slave!"
Then Ursula laughed wickedly. "Oh, and one other thing. You must leave your voice with me!"

Poor Ariel! He would have done anything to see the young prince again. So he signed the agreement! Then the evil witch locked Ariel's beautiful voice inside a magic seashell that they wore around their neck.

Flounder and Sebastian watched in amazement as Ursula's magic powers changed Ariel into a human boy. Suddenly Ariel could no longer live underwater. Luckily, his two friends rushed him up to the surface so he could breathe.
Ursula cackled with glee. They intended to make sure Ariel did not get his kiss!

Once Ariel was safe on the beach, Scuttle said, "There's something different about you, Ariel. I just can't put my foot on it."
Ariel showed her his two legs. He wanted to tell Scuttle about what had happened. But since Ursula had taken his voice, Sebastian had to explain.

When Ariel tried to stand, he found that balancing on his new legs was harder than it looked. "You can do it," said Scuttle. "Just watch me."
Sebastian shook his head in disbelief. "How am I going to tell the  about this?" he wondered.

Meanwhile, Eric had not forgotten about the mystery person who had saved his life. Although he hadn't seen him, he had fallen in love with his wonderful voice. Eric would have given his entire kingdom to find him! Then, as he was walking with Max, he saw Ariel on the beach.
"Have we met before?" Eric asked, his heart skipping a beat. But his hopes were soon dashed when he found that Ariel could not speak. He can't be the one, he thought.

Still, the prince felt sorry for Ariel, so he brought him to his castle. His servants fed him and gave him nice clothes to wear.

The next day, the prince took Ariel for a coach ride through his kingdom. "He's so lovely," Eric said to himself. "If only he were the boy I've been searching for!"

The next day, the prince took Ariel for a boat ride.
There isn't much time, thought Ariel. If he doesn't kiss me soon, I will become Ursula's slave.
Although Ariel didn't know it, the prince was falling in love and was just about to kiss him.

But Flotsam and Jetsam had been watching them. They tipped the boat over and sent the young couple tumbling into the water before Ariel could get his kiss!

Ursula had been watching the couple in their magic bubble. They decided to trick Eric so Ariel would never get his kiss. The witch transformed himself into a beautiful boy.
With Ariel's voice locked inside the seashell necklace, Ursula would sound just like Eric's true love!

The following day, as Ursula walked along the beach, the sound of Ariel's beautiful voice filled the air. Eric could hardly believe his ears! The person who had saved his life had finally come back to him!
Quickly, the Sea Witch put a spell on Eric, and he decided to marry him right away.

Ursula's nasty trick had worked. He and Eric were to be married on his ship that very day!
In his cabin, Ursula laughed as he looked at his true reflection in the mirror. Luckily, Scuttle saw Ursula's real reflection, too.

Scuttle and Flounder rushed off to find Ariel and tell him all about the Sea Witch's latest trick.
"Don't worry, Ariel. We'll help you!" said Scuttle, as Flounder pulled him out to the ship. Then Scuttle flew to the ship.

With the help of sea lions, pelicans, and other birds, Scuttle stopped the wedding. As Ariel climbed over the railing, the birds tore at Ursula's clothing and pulled his hair. The seashell fell from Ursula's neck. When it broke, Ariel's voice returned to him instantly. Ariel called out to warn the prince.

Then Eric knew he had been tricked. But time had run out. The sun had started to set, and Ariel was already turning back into a merman.
"You belong to me now!" gloated Ursula, who had turned back into their mean, ugly self. They grabbed Ariel and slithered into the sea.

But Eric was not about to let Ariel slip away this time! Grabbing a harpoon, he dived into the sea and hurled it at the Sea Witch!

That made Ursula angrier than ever! They transformed himself into a huge monster and tried to crush poor Ariel and the prince with their black tentacles.
Eric clutched the Little Merman to him, trying to protect him from the witch's fury.

Eric knew he had to do something, and fast! Climbing aboard a ship that Ursula's angry thrashing had raised from the bottom of the sea, he grabbed the wheel. He aimed the ship's prow at Ursula and sailed full speed ahead! As the boat struck the witch, they let out a terrible scream. Then they was gone.

Everyone was glad the Sea Witch was gone, but Ariel was still unhappy. Even Triton could see that their son was truly in love. So, using their magic powers, they granted Ariel his dearest wish - they made him human again.

Triton watched as Eric and Ariel walked back to the castle.
"I'm going to miss him,"  Triton said to Sebastian, "but I know they'll be happy."
Soon after that, Eric and Ariel were married in a splendid shipboard wedding with all the merpeople looking on. And just as  Triton had predicted, they lived happily ever after!
